org.apache.flink.api.common.ExecutionConfig$ClosureCleanerLevel does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.ExecutionConfig$GlobalJobParameters does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.ExecutionConfig$SerializableSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.cache.DistributedCache$DistributedCacheEntry does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.eventtime.TimestampAssignerSupplier$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.eventtime.TimestampAssignerSupplier$SupplierFromSerializableTimestampAssigner does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.eventtime.WatermarkGeneratorSupplier$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.io.FileInputFormat$FileBaseStatistics does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.io.FileInputFormat$InputSplitOpenThread does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.io.FileOutputFormat$OutputDirectoryMode does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.io.FilePathFilter$DefaultFilter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.io.ratelimiting.GuavaFlinkConnectorRateLimiter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.GenericDataSourceBase$SplitDataProperties does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.Keys$ExpressionKeys does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.Keys$IncompatibleKeysException does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.Keys$SelectorFunctionKeys does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.ResourceSpec$Builder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.SemanticProperties$EmptySemanticProperties does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.SemanticProperties$InvalidSemanticAnnotationException does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.SingleInputSemanticProperties$AllFieldsForwardedProperties does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.SlotSharingGroup$Builder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.BulkIterationBase$PartialSolutionPlaceHolder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.BulkIterationBase$TerminationCriterionAggregationConvergence does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.BulkIterationBase$TerminationCriterionAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.BulkIterationBase$TerminationCriterionMapper does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.CoGroupRawOperatorBase$SimpleListIterable does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.CrossOperatorBase$CrossWithLarge does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.CrossOperatorBase$CrossWithSmall does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.DeltaIterationBase$SolutionSetPlaceHolder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.DeltaIterationBase$WorksetPlaceHolder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.OuterJoinOperatorBase$OuterJoinType does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.PartitionOperatorBase$PartitionMethod does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.base.ReduceOperatorBase$CombineHint does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.util.JoinHashMap$Prober does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.util.ListKeyGroupedIterator$ValuesIterator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.util.OperatorValidationUtils does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.operators.util.SlotSharingGroupUtils does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.restartstrategy.RestartStrategies$ExponentialDelayRestartStrategyConfiguration does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.restartstrategy.RestartStrategies$FailureRateRestartStrategyConfiguration does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.restartstrategy.RestartStrategies$FallbackRestartStrategyConfiguration does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.restartstrategy.RestartStrategies$FixedDelayRestartStrategyConfiguration does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.restartstrategy.RestartStrategies$NoRestartStrategyConfiguration does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.restartstrategy.RestartStrategies$RestartStrategyConfiguration does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.serialization.BulkWriter$Factory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.state.StateDescriptor$Type does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.state.StateTtlConfig$Builder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.state.StateTtlConfig$CleanupStrategies does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.state.StateTtlConfig$IncrementalCleanupStrategy does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.state.StateTtlConfig$RocksdbCompactFilterCleanupStrategy does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.state.StateTtlConfig$StateVisibility does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.state.StateTtlConfig$TtlTimeCharacteristic does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.state.StateTtlConfig$UpdateType does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.CompositeSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.CompositeTypeSerializerUtil$IntermediateCompatibilityResult does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.SingleThreadAccessCheckingTypeSerializer$SingleThreadAccessCheckingTypeSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.TypeSerializerSnapshotSerializationUtil does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.TypeSerializerUtils does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.UnloadableDummyTypeSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.BigDecSerializer$BigDecSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.BigIntSerializer$BigIntSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.BooleanSerializer$BooleanSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.BooleanValueSerializer$BooleanValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.ByteSerializer$ByteSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.ByteValueSerializer$ByteValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.CharSerializer$CharSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.CharValueSerializer$CharValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.DateSerializer$DateSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.DoubleSerializer$DoubleSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.DoubleValueSerializer$DoubleValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.EnumSerializer$EnumSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.FloatSerializer$FloatSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.FloatValueSerializer$FloatValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.GenericArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.InstantSerializer$InstantSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.IntSerializer$IntSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.IntValueSerializer$IntValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.ListSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.LocalDateSerializer$LocalDateSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.LocalDateTimeSerializer$LocalDateTimeSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.LocalTimeSerializer$LocalTimeSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.LongSerializer$LongSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.LongValueSerializer$LongValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.MapSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.NullValueSerializer$NullValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.ShortSerializer$ShortSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.ShortValueSerializer$ShortValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.SqlDateSerializer$SqlDateSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.SqlTimeSerializer$SqlTimeSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.SqlTimestampSerializer$SqlTimestampSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.StringSerializer$StringSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.StringValueSerializer$StringValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.VoidSerializer$VoidSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.array.BooleanPrimitiveArraySerializer$BooleanPrimitiveArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.array.BytePrimitiveArraySerializer$BytePrimitiveArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.array.CharPrimitiveArraySerializer$CharPrimitiveArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.array.DoublePrimitiveArraySerializer$DoublePrimitiveArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.array.FloatPrimitiveArraySerializer$FloatPrimitiveArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.array.IntPrimitiveArraySerializer$IntPrimitiveArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.array.LongPrimitiveArraySerializer$LongPrimitiveArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.array.ShortPrimitiveArraySerializer$ShortPrimitiveArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.common.typeutils.base.array.StringArraySerializer$StringArraySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.connector.source.lib.NumberSequenceSource$NumberSequenceSplit does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.Utils$ChecksumHashCode does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.Utils$ChecksumHashCodeHelper does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.Utils$CollectHelper does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.Utils$CountHelper does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.aggregation.MaxAggregationFunction$MaxAggregationFunctionFactory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.aggregation.MinAggregationFunction$MinAggregationFunctionFactory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.aggregation.SumAggregationFunction$SumAggregationFunctionFactory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.functions.FunctionAnnotation$ForwardedFields does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.functions.FunctionAnnotation$ForwardedFieldsFirst does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.functions.FunctionAnnotation$ForwardedFieldsSecond does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.functions.FunctionAnnotation$NonForwardedFields does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.functions.FunctionAnnotation$NonForwardedFieldsFirst does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.functions.FunctionAnnotation$NonForwardedFieldsSecond does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.hadoop.mapreduce.wrapper.HadoopInputSplit does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.io.SplitDataProperties$SourcePartitionerMarker does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.io.TextOutputFormat$TextFormatter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.operators.CoGroupOperator$CoGroupOperatorSets does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.operators.CoGroupOperator$CoGroupOperatorSets$CoGroupOperatorSetsPredicate does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.operators.CoGroupOperator$CoGroupOperatorSets$CoGroupOperatorSetsPredicate$CoGroupOperatorWithoutFunction does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.operators.join.JoinOperatorSetsBase$JoinOperatorSetsPredicateBase does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.operators.translation.PlanFilterOperator$FlatMapFilter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.operators.translation.RichCombineToGroupCombineWrapper does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.DoubleSummaryAggregator$MaxDoubleAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.DoubleSummaryAggregator$MinDoubleAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.DoubleSummaryAggregator$SumDoubleAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.FloatSummaryAggregator$MaxFloatAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.FloatSummaryAggregator$MinFloatAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.FloatSummaryAggregator$SumFloatAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.IntegerSummaryAggregator$MaxIntegerAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.IntegerSummaryAggregator$MinIntegerAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.IntegerSummaryAggregator$SumIntegerAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.LongSummaryAggregator$MaxLongAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.LongSummaryAggregator$MinLongAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ShortSummaryAggregator$MaxShortAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ShortSummaryAggregator$MinShortAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ShortSummaryAggregator$SumShortAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ValueSummaryAggregator$BooleanValueSummaryAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ValueSummaryAggregator$DoubleValueSummaryAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ValueSummaryAggregator$FloatValueSummaryAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ValueSummaryAggregator$IntegerValueSummaryAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ValueSummaryAggregator$LongValueSummaryAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ValueSummaryAggregator$ShortValueSummaryAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.summarize.aggregation.ValueSummaryAggregator$StringValueSummaryAggregator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.AvroUtils does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.EitherTypeInfoFactory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.MissingTypeInfo does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.PojoTypeInfo$NamedFlatFieldDescriptor does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.TupleTypeInfoBase does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.TypeExtractionUtils$LambdaExecutable does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.CopyableValueSerializer$CopyableValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.JavaEitherSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.KryoRegistration$SerializerDefinitionType does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.NullableSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.NullableSerializer$NullableSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.RowSerializer$RowSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.Tuple0SerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.ValueSerializer$ValueSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.WritableComparator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.WritableSerializer$WritableSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.kryo.ChillSerializerRegistrar does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.kryo.FlinkChillPackageRegistrar does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.kryo.JavaSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.kryo.KryoSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.kryo.KryoSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.kryo.Serializers$DummyAvroKryoSerializerClass does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.kryo.Serializers$DummyAvroRegisteredClass does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.kryo.Serializers$SpecificInstanceCollectionSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.api.java.typeutils.runtime.kryo.Serializers$SpecificInstanceCollectionSerializerForArrayList does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.CancelCheckpointMarker does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.CheckpointBarrier does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.EndOfData does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.EndOfPartitionEvent does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.EndOfSuperstepEvent does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.EventAnnouncement does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.SubtaskConnectionDescriptor does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.TaskEventHandler does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.reader.AbstractReader does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.reader.MutableReader does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.reader.MutableRecordReader does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.reader.Reader does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.reader.ReaderBase does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.reader.RecordReader does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.serialization.EventSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.serialization.RecordDeserializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.serialization.RecordDeserializer$DeserializationResult does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.serialization.SpillingAdaptiveSpanningRecordDeserializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.BroadcastRecordWriter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.ChannelSelector does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.ChannelSelectorRecordWriter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.MultipleRecordWriters does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.NonRecordWriter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.RecordWriter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.RecordWriterBuilder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.RecordWriterDelegate does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.ResultPartitionWriter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.RoundRobinChannelSelector does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.runtime.io.network.api.writer.SingleRecordWriter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.TimeDomain does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.checkpoint.ExternallyInducedSource$CheckpointTrigger does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.datastream.AsyncDataStream$OutputMode does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.datastream.CoGroupedStreams$UnionSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.KeyedProcessFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.KeyedProcessFunction$OnTimerContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.ProcessFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.ProcessFunction$OnTimerContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.aggregation.AggregationFunction$AggregationType does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.BaseBroadcastProcessFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.BaseBroadcastProcessFunction$ReadOnlyContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.BroadcastProcessFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.BroadcastProcessFunction$ReadOnlyContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.CoProcessFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.CoProcessFunction$OnTimerContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.KeyedBroadcastProcessFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.KeyedBroadcastProcessFunction$OnTimerContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.KeyedBroadcastProcessFunction$ReadOnlyContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.KeyedCoProcessFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.KeyedCoProcessFunction$OnTimerContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.co.ProcessJoinFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.AbstractPartFileWriter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.BucketWriter$PendingFile does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.HadoopPathBasedBulkFormatBuilder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.InProgressFileWriter$InProgressFileRecoverable does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.InProgressFileWriter$PendingFileRecoverable does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.OutputFileConfig does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.OutputStreamBasedPartFileWriter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.OutputStreamBasedPartFileWriter$OutputStreamBasedInProgressFileRecoverable does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.OutputStreamBasedPartFileWriter$OutputStreamBasedInProgressFileRecoverableSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.OutputStreamBasedPartFileWriter$OutputStreamBasedPendingFileRecoverable does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.OutputStreamBasedPartFileWriter$OutputStreamBasedPendingFileRecoverableSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.SerializableConfiguration does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.StreamingFileSink$DefaultBulkFormatBuilder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.StreamingFileSink$DefaultRowFormatBuilder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.sink.filesystem.rollingpolicies.CheckpointRollingPolicy$PolicyBuilder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.source.ContinuousFileReaderOperatorFactory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.source.FileMonitoringFunction$WatchType does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.source.TimestampedFileInputSplit does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.source.TimestampedInputSplit does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.timestamps.AscendingTimestampExtractor$FailingHandler does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.timestamps.AscendingTimestampExtractor$IgnoringHandler does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.timestamps.AscendingTimestampExtractor$LoggingHandler does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.timestamps.AscendingTimestampExtractor$MonotonyViolationHandler does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.timestamps.BoundedOutOfOrdernessTimestampExtractor does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.windowing.ProcessAllWindowFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.functions.windowing.ProcessWindowFunction$Context does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.graph.StreamConfig$InputConfig does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.graph.StreamConfig$InputRequirement does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.graph.StreamConfig$NetworkInputConfig does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.graph.StreamConfig$SourceInputConfig does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.graph.StreamGraphHasher does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.graph.StreamGraphHasherV2 does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.graph.StreamGraphUserHashHasher does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.BackendRestorerProcedure does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.CountingOutput does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.InputSelection$Builder does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.InternalTimeServiceManager$Provider does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.InternalTimerServiceImpl does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.InternalTimersSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.InternalTimersSnapshotReaderWriters$InternalTimersSnapshotReader does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.InternalTimersSnapshotReaderWriters$InternalTimersSnapshotWriter does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.InternalTimersSnapshotReaderWriters$LegacyTimerSerializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.KeyContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.OneInputStreamOperatorFactory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.OperatorSnapshotFinalizer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.OperatorSnapshotFutures does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.SourceOperatorFactory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.StreamOperatorFactoryUtil does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.StreamOperatorStateContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.StreamOperatorStateHandler$CheckpointedStreamOperator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.StreamTaskStateInitializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.StreamTaskStateInitializerImpl does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.async.AsyncWaitOperatorFactory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.co.IntervalJoinOperator$BufferEntrySerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.AbstractCollectResultBuffer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CheckpointedCollectResultBuffer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CollectCoordinationRequest does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CollectCoordinationResponse does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CollectResultFetcher does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CollectResultIterator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CollectSinkAddressEvent does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CollectSinkOperator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CollectSinkOperatorCoordinator does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CollectSinkOperatorCoordinator$Provider does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.CollectSinkOperatorFactory does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.collect.UncheckpointedCollectResultBuffer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.sort.MultiInputSortingDataInput does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.sort.MultiInputSortingDataInput$SelectableSortingInputs does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.sort.SortingDataInput does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.sorted.state.BatchExecutionCheckpointStorage does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.sorted.state.BatchExecutionInternalTimeService does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.sorted.state.BatchExecutionInternalTimeServiceManager does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.sorted.state.BatchExecutionKeyedStateBackend does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.sorted.state.BatchExecutionStateBackend does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.operators.util.SimpleVersionedListState does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.transformations.SideOutputTransformation does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.assigners.EventTimeSessionWindows does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.assigners.MergingWindowAssigner$MergeCallback does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.assigners.ProcessingTimeSessionWindows does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.assigners.SlidingProcessingTimeWindows does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.assigners.TumblingProcessingTimeWindows does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.assigners.WindowAssigner$WindowAssignerContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.evictors.Evictor$EvictorContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.triggers.Trigger$OnMergeContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.triggers.Trigger$TriggerContext does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.triggers.TriggerResult does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.windows.GlobalWindow$Serializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.windows.GlobalWindow$Serializer$GlobalWindowSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.windows.TimeWindow$Serializer does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated
org.apache.flink.streaming.api.windowing.windows.TimeWindow$Serializer$TimeWindowSerializerSnapshot does not satisfy: annotated with @Internal or annotated with @Experimental or annotated with @PublicEvolving or annotated with @Public or annotated with @Deprecated