docs/ops/config.md, before:

---
title: "Configuration"
nav-id: "config"
nav-parent_id: ops
nav-pos: 4
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

**For single-node setups Flink is ready to go out of the box and you don't need to change the default configuration to get started.**

The out of the box configuration will use your default Java installation. You can manually set the environment variable `JAVA_HOME` or the configuration key `env.java.home` in `conf/flink-conf.yaml` if you want to manually override the Java runtime to use.

This page lists the most common options that are typically needed to set up a well performing (distributed) installation. In addition a full list of all available configuration parameters is listed here.

All configuration is done in `conf/flink-conf.yaml`, which is expected to be a flat collection of [YAML key value pairs](http://www.yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html) with format `key: value`.

The system and run scripts parse the config at startup time. Changes to the configuration file require restarting the Flink JobManager and TaskManagers.

The configuration files for the TaskManagers can be different, Flink does not assume uniform machines in the cluster.

* This will be replaced by the TOC
{:toc}

## Common Options

{% include generated/common_section.html %}

## Full Reference

### HDFS

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> These keys are deprecated and it is recommended to configure the Hadoop path with the environment variable <code>HADOOP_CONF_DIR</code> instead.
</div>

These parameters configure the default HDFS used by Flink. Setups that do not specify a HDFS configuration have to specify the full path to HDFS files (`hdfs://address:port/path/to/files`) Files will also be written with default HDFS parameters (block size, replication factor).

- `fs.hdfs.hadoopconf`: The absolute path to the Hadoop File System's (HDFS) configuration **directory** (OPTIONAL VALUE). Specifying this value allows programs to reference HDFS files using short URIs (`hdfs:///path/to/files`, without including the address and port of the NameNode in the file URI). Without this option, HDFS files can be accessed, but require fully qualified URIs like `hdfs://address:port/path/to/files`. This option also causes file writers to pick up the HDFS's default values for block sizes and replication factors. Flink will look for the "core-site.xml" and "hdfs-site.xml" files in the specified directory.

- `fs.hdfs.hdfsdefault`: The absolute path of Hadoop's own configuration file "hdfs-default.xml" (DEFAULT: null).

- `fs.hdfs.hdfssite`: The absolute path of Hadoop's own configuration file "hdfs-site.xml" (DEFAULT: null).

### Core

{% include generated/core_configuration.html %}

### JobManager

{% include generated/job_manager_configuration.html %}

### TaskManager

{% include generated/task_manager_configuration.html %}

### Distributed Coordination (via Akka)

{% include generated/akka_configuration.html %}

### REST

{% include generated/rest_configuration.html %}

### Blob Server

{% include generated/blob_server_configuration.html %}

### Heartbeat Manager

{% include generated/heartbeat_manager_configuration.html %}

### SSL Settings

{% include generated/security_configuration.html %}

### Network communication (via Netty)

These parameters allow for advanced tuning. The default values are sufficient when running concurrent high-throughput jobs on a large cluster.

{% include generated/netty_configuration.html %}

### Web Frontend

{% include generated/web_configuration.html %}

### File Systems

{% include generated/file_system_configuration.html %}

### Compiler/Optimizer

{% include generated/optimizer_configuration.html %}

### Runtime Algorithms

{% include generated/algorithm_configuration.html %}

### Resource Manager

The configuration keys in this section are independent of the used resource management framework (YARN, Mesos, Standalone, ...)

{% include generated/resource_manager_configuration.html %}

### YARN

{% include generated/yarn_config_configuration.html %}

### Mesos

{% include generated/mesos_configuration.html %}

#### Mesos TaskManager

{% include generated/mesos_task_manager_configuration.html %}

### High Availability (HA)

{% include generated/high_availability_configuration.html %}

#### ZooKeeper-based HA Mode

{% include generated/high_availability_zookeeper_configuration.html %}

### ZooKeeper Security

{% include generated/zoo_keeper_configuration.html %}

### Kerberos-based Security

{% include generated/kerberos_configuration.html %}

### Environment

{% include generated/environment_configuration.html %}

### Checkpointing

{% include generated/checkpointing_configuration.html %}

### Queryable State

{% include generated/queryable_state_configuration.html %}

### Metrics

{% include generated/metric_configuration.html %}

### History Server

You have to configure `jobmanager.archive.fs.dir` in order to archive terminated jobs and add it to the list of monitored directories via `historyserver.archive.fs.dir` if you want to display them via the HistoryServer's web frontend.

- `jobmanager.archive.fs.dir`: Directory to upload information about terminated jobs to. You have to add this directory to the list of monitored directories of the history server via `historyserver.archive.fs.dir`.

{% include generated/history_server_configuration.html %}

## Legacy

- `mode`: Execution mode of Flink. Possible values are `legacy` and `new`. In order to start the legacy components, you have to specify `legacy` (DEFAULT: `new`).

## Background


### Configuring the Network Buffers

If you ever see the Exception `java.io.IOException: Insufficient number of network buffers`, you
need to adapt the amount of memory used for network buffers in order for your program to run on your
task managers.

Network buffers are a critical resource for the communication layers. They are used to buffer
records before transmission over a network, and to buffer incoming data before dissecting it into
records and handing them to the application. A sufficient number of network buffers is critical to
achieve a good throughput.

<div class="alert alert-info">
Since Flink 1.3, you may follow the idiom "more is better" without any penalty on the latency (we
prevent excessive buffering in each outgoing and incoming channel, i.e. *buffer bloat*, by limiting
the actual number of buffers used by each channel).
</div>

In general, configure the task manager to have enough buffers that each logical network connection
you expect to be open at the same time has a dedicated buffer. A logical network connection exists
for each point-to-point exchange of data over the network, which typically happens at
repartitioning or broadcasting steps (shuffle phase). In those, each parallel task inside the
TaskManager has to be able to talk to all other parallel tasks.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> Since Flink 1.5, network buffers will always be allocated off-heap, i.e. outside of the JVM heap, irrespective of the value of <code>taskmanager.memory.off-heap</code>. This way, we can pass these buffers directly to the underlying network stack layers.
</div>

#### Setting Memory Fractions

Previously, the number of network buffers was set manually which became a quite error-prone task
(see below). Since Flink 1.3, it is possible to define a fraction of memory that is being used for
network buffers with the following configuration parameters:

- `taskmanager.network.memory.fraction`: Fraction of JVM memory to use for network buffers (DEFAULT: 0.1),
- `taskmanager.network.memory.min`: Minimum memory size for network buffers (DEFAULT: 64MB),
- `taskmanager.network.memory.max`: Maximum memory size for network buffers (DEFAULT: 1GB), and
- `taskmanager.memory.segment-size`: Size of memory buffers used by the memory manager and the
network stack in bytes (DEFAULT: 32KB).

#### Setting the Number of Network Buffers directly

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> This way of configuring the amount of memory used for network buffers is deprecated. Please consider using the method above by defining a fraction of memory to use.
</div>

The required number of buffers on a task manager is
*total-degree-of-parallelism* (number of targets) \* *intra-node-parallelism* (number of sources in one task manager) \* *n*
with *n* being a constant that defines how many repartitioning-/broadcasting steps you expect to be
active at the same time. Since the *intra-node-parallelism* is typically the number of cores, and
more than 4 repartitioning or broadcasting channels are rarely active in parallel, it frequently
boils down to

{% highlight plain %}
#slots-per-TM^2 * #TMs * 4
{% endhighlight %}

Where `#slots per TM` are the [number of slots per TaskManager](#configuring-taskmanager-processing-slots) and `#TMs` are the total number of task managers.

To support, for example, a cluster of 20 8-slot machines, you should use roughly 5000 network
buffers for optimal throughput.

Each network buffer has by default a size of 32 KiBytes. In the example above, the system would thus
allocate roughly 300 MiBytes for network buffers.

The number and size of network buffers can be configured with the following parameters:

- `taskmanager.network.numberOfBuffers`, and
- `taskmanager.memory.segment-size`.

### Configuring Temporary I/O Directories

Although Flink aims to process as much data in main memory as possible, it is not uncommon that more data needs to be processed than memory is available. Flink's runtime is designed to write temporary data to disk to handle these situations.

The `taskmanager.tmp.dirs` parameter specifies a list of directories into which Flink writes temporary files. The paths of the directories need to be separated by ':' (colon character). Flink will concurrently write (or read) one temporary file to (from) each configured directory. This way, temporary I/O can be evenly distributed over multiple independent I/O devices such as hard disks to improve performance. To leverage fast I/O devices (e.g., SSD, RAID, NAS), it is possible to specify a directory multiple times.

If the `taskmanager.tmp.dirs` parameter is not explicitly specified, Flink writes temporary data to the temporary directory of the operating system, such as */tmp* in Linux systems.

### Configuring TaskManager processing slots

Flink executes a program in parallel by splitting it into subtasks and scheduling these subtasks to processing slots.

Each Flink TaskManager provides processing slots in the cluster. The number of slots is typically proportional to the number of available CPU cores __of each__ TaskManager. As a general recommendation, the number of available CPU cores is a good default for `taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots`.

When starting a Flink application, users can supply the default number of slots to use for that job. The command line value therefore is called `-p` (for parallelism). In addition, it is possible to [set the number of slots in the programming APIs]({{site.baseurl}}/dev/parallel.html) for the whole application and for individual operators.

<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/fig/slots_parallelism.svg" class="img-responsive" />

{% top %}

Commit message:

[FLINK-6437][History Server] Move history server configuration to a separate file

docs/ops/config.md, after:

---
title: "Configuration"
nav-id: "config"
nav-parent_id: ops
nav-pos: 4
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

**For single-node setups Flink is ready to go out of the box and you don't need to change the default configuration to get started.**

The out of the box configuration will use your default Java installation. You can manually set the environment variable `JAVA_HOME` or the configuration key `env.java.home` in `conf/flink-conf.yaml` if you want to manually override the Java runtime to use.

This page lists the most common options that are typically needed to set up a well performing (distributed) installation. In addition a full list of all available configuration parameters is listed here.

All configuration is done in `conf/flink-conf.yaml`, which is expected to be a flat collection of [YAML key value pairs](http://www.yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html) with format `key: value`.

The system and run scripts parse the config at startup time. Changes to the configuration file require restarting the Flink JobManager and TaskManagers.

The configuration files for the TaskManagers can be different, Flink does not assume uniform machines in the cluster.

* This will be replaced by the TOC
{:toc}

## Common Options

{% include generated/common_section.html %}

## Full Reference

### HDFS

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> These keys are deprecated and it is recommended to configure the Hadoop path with the environment variable <code>HADOOP_CONF_DIR</code> instead.
</div>

These parameters configure the default HDFS used by Flink. Setups that do not specify a HDFS configuration have to specify the full path to HDFS files (`hdfs://address:port/path/to/files`) Files will also be written with default HDFS parameters (block size, replication factor).

- `fs.hdfs.hadoopconf`: The absolute path to the Hadoop File System's (HDFS) configuration **directory** (OPTIONAL VALUE). Specifying this value allows programs to reference HDFS files using short URIs (`hdfs:///path/to/files`, without including the address and port of the NameNode in the file URI). Without this option, HDFS files can be accessed, but require fully qualified URIs like `hdfs://address:port/path/to/files`. This option also causes file writers to pick up the HDFS's default values for block sizes and replication factors. Flink will look for the "core-site.xml" and "hdfs-site.xml" files in the specified directory.

- `fs.hdfs.hdfsdefault`: The absolute path of Hadoop's own configuration file "hdfs-default.xml" (DEFAULT: null).

- `fs.hdfs.hdfssite`: The absolute path of Hadoop's own configuration file "hdfs-site.xml" (DEFAULT: null).

### Core

{% include generated/core_configuration.html %}

### JobManager

{% include generated/job_manager_configuration.html %}

### TaskManager

{% include generated/task_manager_configuration.html %}

### Distributed Coordination (via Akka)

{% include generated/akka_configuration.html %}

### REST

{% include generated/rest_configuration.html %}

### Blob Server

{% include generated/blob_server_configuration.html %}

### Heartbeat Manager

{% include generated/heartbeat_manager_configuration.html %}

### SSL Settings

{% include generated/security_configuration.html %}

### Network communication (via Netty)

These parameters allow for advanced tuning. The default values are sufficient when running concurrent high-throughput jobs on a large cluster.

{% include generated/netty_configuration.html %}

### Web Frontend

{% include generated/web_configuration.html %}

### File Systems

{% include generated/file_system_configuration.html %}

### Compiler/Optimizer

{% include generated/optimizer_configuration.html %}

### Runtime Algorithms

{% include generated/algorithm_configuration.html %}

### Resource Manager

The configuration keys in this section are independent of the used resource management framework (YARN, Mesos, Standalone, ...)

{% include generated/resource_manager_configuration.html %}

### YARN

{% include generated/yarn_config_configuration.html %}

### Mesos

{% include generated/mesos_configuration.html %}

#### Mesos TaskManager

{% include generated/mesos_task_manager_configuration.html %}

### High Availability (HA)

{% include generated/high_availability_configuration.html %}

#### ZooKeeper-based HA Mode

{% include generated/high_availability_zookeeper_configuration.html %}

### ZooKeeper Security

{% include generated/zoo_keeper_configuration.html %}

### Kerberos-based Security

{% include generated/kerberos_configuration.html %}

### Environment

{% include generated/environment_configuration.html %}

### Checkpointing

{% include generated/checkpointing_configuration.html %}

### Queryable State

{% include generated/queryable_state_configuration.html %}

### Metrics

{% include generated/metric_configuration.html %}

### History Server

**Note:** History Server related configuration items have been moved to the `flink-historyserver-conf.yaml` file. Flink will read the configuration in the `flink-historyserver-conf.yaml` file first, and Flink will attempt to read the relevant configuration items from `flink-conf.yaml` only if it does not exist. Keeping these configuration items in `flink-conf.yaml` is for backward compatibility purposes only.

You have to configure `jobmanager.archive.fs.dir` in order to archive terminated jobs and add it to the list of monitored directories via `historyserver.archive.fs.dir` if you want to display them via the HistoryServer's web frontend.

- `jobmanager.archive.fs.dir`: Directory to upload information about terminated jobs to. You have to add this directory to the list of monitored directories of the history server via `historyserver.archive.fs.dir`.

{% include generated/history_server_configuration.html %}

## Legacy

- `mode`: Execution mode of Flink. Possible values are `legacy` and `new`. In order to start the legacy components, you have to specify `legacy` (DEFAULT: `new`).

## Background


### Configuring the Network Buffers

If you ever see the Exception `java.io.IOException: Insufficient number of network buffers`, you
need to adapt the amount of memory used for network buffers in order for your program to run on your
task managers.

Network buffers are a critical resource for the communication layers. They are used to buffer
records before transmission over a network, and to buffer incoming data before dissecting it into
records and handing them to the application. A sufficient number of network buffers is critical to
achieve a good throughput.

<div class="alert alert-info">
Since Flink 1.3, you may follow the idiom "more is better" without any penalty on the latency (we
prevent excessive buffering in each outgoing and incoming channel, i.e. *buffer bloat*, by limiting
the actual number of buffers used by each channel).
</div>

In general, configure the task manager to have enough buffers that each logical network connection
you expect to be open at the same time has a dedicated buffer. A logical network connection exists
for each point-to-point exchange of data over the network, which typically happens at
repartitioning or broadcasting steps (shuffle phase). In those, each parallel task inside the
TaskManager has to be able to talk to all other parallel tasks.

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> Since Flink 1.5, network buffers will always be allocated off-heap, i.e. outside of the JVM heap, irrespective of the value of <code>taskmanager.memory.off-heap</code>. This way, we can pass these buffers directly to the underlying network stack layers.
</div>

#### Setting Memory Fractions

Previously, the number of network buffers was set manually which became a quite error-prone task
(see below). Since Flink 1.3, it is possible to define a fraction of memory that is being used for
network buffers with the following configuration parameters:

- `taskmanager.network.memory.fraction`: Fraction of JVM memory to use for network buffers (DEFAULT: 0.1),
- `taskmanager.network.memory.min`: Minimum memory size for network buffers (DEFAULT: 64MB),
- `taskmanager.network.memory.max`: Maximum memory size for network buffers (DEFAULT: 1GB), and
- `taskmanager.memory.segment-size`: Size of memory buffers used by the memory manager and the
network stack in bytes (DEFAULT: 32KB).

#### Setting the Number of Network Buffers directly

<div class="alert alert-warning">
  <strong>Note:</strong> This way of configuring the amount of memory used for network buffers is deprecated. Please consider using the method above by defining a fraction of memory to use.
</div>

The required number of buffers on a task manager is
*total-degree-of-parallelism* (number of targets) \* *intra-node-parallelism* (number of sources in one task manager) \* *n*
with *n* being a constant that defines how many repartitioning-/broadcasting steps you expect to be
active at the same time. Since the *intra-node-parallelism* is typically the number of cores, and
more than 4 repartitioning or broadcasting channels are rarely active in parallel, it frequently
boils down to

{% highlight plain %}
#slots-per-TM^2 * #TMs * 4
{% endhighlight %}

Where `#slots per TM` are the [number of slots per TaskManager](#configuring-taskmanager-processing-slots) and `#TMs` are the total number of task managers.

To support, for example, a cluster of 20 8-slot machines, you should use roughly 5000 network
buffers for optimal throughput.

Each network buffer has by default a size of 32 KiBytes. In the example above, the system would thus
allocate roughly 300 MiBytes for network buffers.

The number and size of network buffers can be configured with the following parameters:

- `taskmanager.network.numberOfBuffers`, and
- `taskmanager.memory.segment-size`.

### Configuring Temporary I/O Directories

Although Flink aims to process as much data in main memory as possible, it is not uncommon that more data needs to be processed than memory is available. Flink's runtime is designed to write temporary data to disk to handle these situations.

The `taskmanager.tmp.dirs` parameter specifies a list of directories into which Flink writes temporary files. The paths of the directories need to be separated by ':' (colon character). Flink will concurrently write (or read) one temporary file to (from) each configured directory. This way, temporary I/O can be evenly distributed over multiple independent I/O devices such as hard disks to improve performance. To leverage fast I/O devices (e.g., SSD, RAID, NAS), it is possible to specify a directory multiple times.

If the `taskmanager.tmp.dirs` parameter is not explicitly specified, Flink writes temporary data to the temporary directory of the operating system, such as */tmp* in Linux systems.

### Configuring TaskManager processing slots

Flink executes a program in parallel by splitting it into subtasks and scheduling these subtasks to processing slots.

Each Flink TaskManager provides processing slots in the cluster. The number of slots is typically proportional to the number of available CPU cores __of each__ TaskManager. As a general recommendation, the number of available CPU cores is a good default for `taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots`.

When starting a Flink application, users can supply the default number of slots to use for that job. The command line value therefore is called `-p` (for parallelism). In addition, it is possible to [set the number of slots in the programming APIs]({{site.baseurl}}/dev/parallel.html) for the whole application and for individual operators.

<img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/fig/slots_parallelism.svg" class="img-responsive" />

{% top %}
